More than 20 years ago, a Wake magazine published the life story of Alina Jitnikova.
Alina realized that pleasing Jehovah would mean rejection by this world.
But in the following episode of Where Are They Now, know what she describes as perhaps
an even bigger test.
My name is Alina Jitnikova and I was born into a family of a zealous communist.
We believed that a world was coming where people would have everything they needed.
They'd be happy.
There would be peace worldwide and I deeply believed it.
But I found paradise among God's people.
As I grew up, I realized that communism had its deficits because I saw its hypocrisy.
People didn't practice what they preached.
In high school, I met a friend who started talking about God and the Bible.
So the fact that God's name is Jehovah, that something called God's Kingdom and Armageddon
will come, these were all new concepts for me.
I'd never heard of these things before.
I'd never even held a Bible in my hand.
A Bible study gradually helped me gain faith.
In 1983, I was baptized in a bathtub.
At that time, Jehovah's Witnesses were under ban.
In 1989, the Velvet Revolution took place in Czechoslovakia.
That also meant a change for Jehovah's Witnesses.
Because we could begin to express our faith publicly.
The house to house ministry started and it was something amazing and new for me.
I got to know Petter in our local congregation and we got married in 1990.
We entered into a full-time service two years after the wedding.
We first started serving as regular pioneers and two years later, we were invited to Bethel.
Those were years full of joy, full of hard work which greatly enriched me.
We left Bethel eight years later and I found that people had changed and it was a challenge for us.
Because now people have become more materialistic.
When I learned the truth, it seemed to me that Armageddon was at the door, that it would come soon.
And the world helped us in a way because it didn't want us, it didn't want Jehovah's Witnesses.
But today's world, with its freedom, doesn't tell us that it doesn't want us.
In fact, it wants us.
It wants our time.
It wants our attention.
And therefore, there may be a great danger.
We could feel that Armageddon is delaying.
So we might feel the need to fulfill our dreams already today.
Jehovah teaches me to be patient.
Jehovah is a happy God.
And even when he waits, he does not wait idly.
Jehovah is hard working, he's always doing something.
When you feel the waiting with activity, time goes faster.
The field ministry is very important to me.
Sometimes it costs a little effort.
But my service partners are always a great encouragement to me.
With Jehovah's help, we have nice conversations in service.
And even today, we find people who think about the meaning of life.
Service does not only consist of house to house service.
Service is the whole Christian way of life,
including caring for brothers and sisters.
I think serving my brothers and sisters
requires us to set aside time for them.
In this way, I can promote a good atmosphere in the congregation.
To be in the spiritual paradise, I must contribute something.
As a result, the spiritual paradise will be bigger, deeper, and more beautiful.
When we do something for others,
we don't think too much about ourselves, our pain.
And I think life in Jehovah's service is sometimes challenging.
But the result is happiness.
And already today, I can say that my dream of a happy life has come true.
We're encouraged to see Sister Alana Jitnikovah and her husband Petr
remain busy in kingdom service.
How wonderful that this has helped them to have realistic expectations
and continue to remain joyful.
In a world that wants our time and energy,
all in a maintain her focus by sharing her Christian hope,
caring for her brothers and sisters,
and doing her all to encourage others.